chore(blog): post that summarized asyncapi in 2020 (#166)
asyncapi/website: pages/blog/2020-summary.md

---
title: "Awesome 2020 and What Can Get Better In 2021"
date: 2020-12-16T06:00:00+01:00
type: Communication
tags:
  - Postman
  - Announcement
cover: /img/posts/2020-summary/cover.webp
authors:
  - name: Lukasz Gornicki
    photo: /img/avatars/lpgornicki.webp
    link: https://twitter.com/derberq
    byline: AsyncAPI Maintainer and Dev Comm Keeper
excerpt: 'Fuck you COVID-19, AsyncAPI Community is stronger than you think. See the growth of AsyncAPI in 2020 in hard numbers. How we compare to 2019?'
featured: true
---

:fu: COVID-19

AsyncAPI Community is stronger than you think. 

See the growth of AsyncAPI in 2020 in hard numbers. How do we compare to 2019?

This post is based on quantitative data using metrics from different platforms where AsyncAPI is present. I collected this data between 15-17.12, so they are already a bit larger by now. I'll try to confront our qualitative knowledge, what we know from discussions with others, and our observations.

This post is not 100% just in numbers and analytics. It is also a summary of all the important things that happened to the project this year.

> ## Important moments - Top 6

Reviewer: It's very weird that it says Top 6 but there are only 5 points. I know you're including Postman announcement but it still looks weird 😄

Author: will remove top then

1. Our first ever <a href="/blog/asyncapi-conference-kick-off">AsyncAPI Online Conference</a>. This pandemic edition turned out to be a very successful event that powered us up for the rest of the year
1. We took active part in <a href="/blog/hacktoberfest-summary-2020">Hacktoberfest</a> as maintainers and increased the number of contributions to the project

> 1. AsyncAPI was featured in InfoQ's [Software Architecture and Design InfoQ Trends Report—April 2020](https://www.infoq.com/articles/architecture-trends-2020/) that directly brought 1 963 new users to the AsyncAPI website

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. AsyncAPI was featured in InfoQ's [Software Architecture and Design InfoQ Trends Report—April 2020](https://www.infoq.com/articles/architecture-trends-2020/) that directly brought 1963 new users to the AsyncAPI website
```

> 1. AsyncAPI showed up on [Technology Radar](https://www.thoughtworks.com/radar/tools/asyncapi) that tool 1051 users directly to AsyncAPI website

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. AsyncAPI showed up on [Technology Radar](https://www.thoughtworks.com/radar/tools/asyncapi) that took 1051 users directly to the AsyncAPI website
```

      159
    </td>
    <td align="center">
      432<br/>
      (+273)
    </td>
    <td align="center">
      888<br/>
      (+456)
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>

More members means higher activity :sweat_smile:

<table>
  <tr>
    <td align="center">
    </td>
    <td align="center">
      2019
    </td>
    <td align="center">
      2020
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td align="center">
      Weekly members activity 
    </td>
    <td align="center">
      45 average<br/>
      42 median
    </td>
    <td align="center">
      81 average<br/>
      76 median
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>

### Most present companies

I was also super curious to check out where our members are coming from. The only way to do it was by checking the domain of their emails used during registration. Yes, this is not 100% accurate. Not all people use company emails in open source. It is visible in data; half of the users have the **gmail.com** domain. Nevertheless, the result of my investigation is pretty accurate with our knowledge. The ones that have more than three representants:
- mulesoft.com
- postman.com
- redhat.com
- sap.com
- smartbear.com
- solace.com
- tibco.com
- worldpay.com

> Some of these companies sponsored our work in 2020. The ones that didn't... don't worry, we'll contact you :wink:. In 2021 we want to go into a neutral ground (join a foundation). There'll be no more excuses.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some of these companies sponsored our work in 2020. The ones that didn't... don't worry, we'll contact you :wink: In 2021, we want to go into a neutral ground (i.e., joining a foundation). There'll be no more excuses.
```

The dot after the emoji is just a preference.

> Some of these companies sponsored our work in 2020. The ones that didn't... don't worry, we'll contact you :wink:. In 2021 we want to go into a neutral ground (join a foundation). There'll be no more excuses.

Reviewer 2: A bit offensive? 😆

Author: offensive for who? corporations? more than my "fuck you" for covid?

Reviewer 2: `don't worry, we'll contact you :wink:` this part 😄

Reviewer 2: The covid part was fine I think :D

Author: nah, this is why I wink 😄 I'm not gonna chase anybody with our piggy bank, I'm more curious about their use cases and their plans for AsyncAPI and how they could help us out

### What's next with Slack

> Slack hard numbers confirm what we see in Slack every day. Luckily, even though the activity doubled, the number of active users that help out in the workspace also grew :pray:. With the recently announced Postman partnership, I do not worry about how we'll handle 2021.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Slack hard numbers confirm what we see in Slack every day. Luckily, even though the activity doubled, the number of active users that help out in the workspace also grew :pray: With the recently announced Postman partnership, I do not worry about how we'll handle 2021.
```

Just a preference

Next year we need to address two critical topics:

> - out community grows, but the knowledge that we all share in Slack is lost. We use a free version of Slack, and therefore, only the last 10k messages are available. In 2021 we need to make a strong decision on what next. Should we spend some budget on Slack commercial subscriptions, or maybe we should find a better tool.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- our community grows but the knowledge that we all share in Slack is lost. We use a free version of Slack, and therefore, only the last 10k messages are available. In 2021, we need to make a strong decision on what's next. Should we spend some budget on Slack commercial subscriptions, or maybe we should find a better tool?
```

- we need to reorganize our channels, be a bit more granular, and target suitable community groups. We'll bother you to get your feedback once we start this reorganization.

## LinkedIn

> [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/asyncapi/) grew a lot this year. We won't be able to compare this year with the previous because... this is not a place where I want to discuss not the experience you get with LinkedIn.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/company/asyncapi/) grew a lot this year. We won't be able to compare this year with the previous one because this is not a place where I want to discuss nor the experience you get with LinkedIn.
```

Author: I'll keep ... as this represents that  want to cut the topic and not discuss bad linkedin experience

### Followers and impressions

At the moment, we have 757 followers.

<table>
  <tr>
    <td align="center">
      Followers
    </td>
    <td align="center">
      Likes
    </td>
    <td align="center">
      Impressions
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td align="center">
      611<br/>
      57 from payed marketing
    </td>
    <td align="center">
      1253
    </td>
    <td align="center">
      80095
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>

> People that like your updates are most likely the ones that click on links. 75% (947) of likes converted into visits to our [website](http://asyncapi.com/). We took this data from Google Analytics, and we know that in 2019 we had only 137 visits from LinkedIn.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
People that like our updates are most likely the ones that click on links. 75% (947) of likes converted into visits to our [website](http://asyncapi.com/). We took this data from Google Analytics, and we know that in 2019 we had only 137 visits from LinkedIn.
```

> The most performing update was the one about [partnership with Postman](https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:activity:6742099578591481856). It is LinkedIn, and it is all about business.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The most performing update was the one about the [partnership with Postman](https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:activity:6742099578591481856). It is LinkedIn, and it is all about business.
```

> The below charts show that data match reality. The highest peak in late March is related to our first [AsyncAPI Online Conference](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oMSzGc5bDr4). The rise of sponsored traffic is connected to our post-conference activities using the money we got from conference sponsors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The chart below shows that data match reality. The highest peak in late March is related to our first [AsyncAPI Online Conference](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oMSzGc5bDr4). The rise of sponsored traffic is connected to our post-conference activities using the money we got from conference sponsors.
```

<Figure
  src="/img/posts/2020-summary/linkedin-impressions.webp"
  caption="Figure 2: Impressions to updates in 2020"
/>

### Sponsored marketing

This year we explored paid adverts on LinkedIn. We had some money left from sponsors of our AsyncAPI conference but zero experience with LinkedIn.

> Luckily we have a fantastic community. One of the community members, [Dan Weese](https://www.linkedin.com/in/daniel-weese-53b27410/), helped us here. He did not only put us in contact with marketing expert, [Charles Serdou](https://www.linkedin.com/in/sardou/), but also covered his wages. Thank you Dan :pray:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Luckily, we have a fantastic community. One of the community members, [Dan Weese](https://www.linkedin.com/in/daniel-weese-53b27410/), helped us here. He did not only put us in contact with marketing expert, [Charles Serdou](https://www.linkedin.com/in/sardou/) but also covered his wages. Thank you, Dan :pray:
```

> This way, we covered only LinkedIn costs paying $1 074.08

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This way, we covered only LinkedIn costs paying $1,074.08
```

Author: this is actually not how you show money
on transferwise I see `1 074,08` and my bank uses the same format, so I will change everywhere to comma instead of the dot

<Figure
  src="/img/posts/2020-summary/linkedin-folowers.webp"
  caption="Figure 3: Followers growth in 2020"
/>

Marketing was focused on increasing the number of followers. Comparing the results of sponsored marketing with followers' organic growth, one could say LinkedIn marketing was not so good. It was very good though. LinkedIn is just super expensive and charged a lot for every new follower.

We should give it a second chance in 2021, but this time with sponsored updates.

### What's next with LinkedIn

The numbers show it is worth investing in the channel. We can reach a lot of people that are not reachable on other channels. So we will for sure continue what we do now, especially that this work doesn't require too much extra effort from us.

I feel that probably some traffic coming from LinkedIn to our website is not adequately tracked in Google Analytics. Data from LinkedIn say we should notice 2x947 traffic. It might be related to people blocking tracking tools, and we will have to make sure to use other tracking methods, like putting identifiers in the links.

> Most important conclusion. If the AsyncAPI conference brought so much activity, it is evident that in 2021 we must organize another great AsyncAPI event.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Most important conclusion: If the AsyncAPI conference brought so much activity, it is evident that in 2021 we must organize another great AsyncAPI event.
```

Reviewer: Also, I'm not sure if this belongs here. This section is about LinkedIn and you're talking about the conference. Seems out of context.

Author: I think I'll remove entire sentence

## Google Analytics

We use Google Analytics on [AsyncAPI website](https://www.asyncapi.com/) because we want to understand what content is most valuable for you, and we want to learn how the interest is growing. 

> ### traffic got much higher

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Traffic got much higher
```

### Paid marketing

We used money from our AsyncAPI conference sponsors to advertise the conference on Twitter.

We spent $924.14 on this activity and when we compare it to organic impressions over this year, result is just great:

<table>
  <tr>
    <td align="center">
    </td>
    <td align="center">
      Organic (549 tweets)
    </td>
    <td align="center">
      Promoted (3! tweets)
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td align="center">
      Impressions
    </td>
    <td align="center">
      570 466
    </td>
    <td align="center">
      525 329
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td align="center">
      Retweets
    </td>
    <td align="center">
      1 429
    </td>
    <td align="center">
      77
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td align="center">
      Likes
    </td>
    <td align="center">
      2 507
    </td>
    <td align="center">
      567
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td align="center">
      URLs clicks
    </td>
    <td align="center">
      2 759
    </td>
    <td align="center">
      2 283
    </td>
  </tr>
    <tr>
    <td align="center">
      Follows
    </td>
    <td align="center">
      4
    </td>
    <td align="center">
      35
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>

> Nothing is black and white, even twitter performance. One could say:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Nothing is black and white, even Twitter performance. One could say:
```

> leave organic growth and invest in paid marketing 

> We do not treat tweeter as just a marketing channel. It is our window to the community. We use it to share updates, short information and engage directly with our community members. We should continue to work on organic growth. It converted only into 2 160 sessions to the AsyncAPI website, which is not much if we compare it with 2 283 sessions opened with the AsyncAPI Conference website using promoted content. We do not want to close the window, though.

Reviewer 2: Do you mean Twitter? 😄 
```suggestion
We do not treat Twitter as just a marketing channel. It is our window to the community. We use it to share updates, short information and engage directly with our community members. We should continue to work on organic growth. It converted only into 2 160 sessions to the AsyncAPI website, which is not much if we compare it with 2 283 sessions opened with the AsyncAPI Conference website using promoted content. We do not want to close the window, though.
```

> We do not treat tweeter as just a marketing channel. It is our window to the community. We use it to share updates, short information and engage directly with our community members. We should continue to work on organic growth. It converted only into 2 160 sessions to the AsyncAPI website, which is not much if we compare it with 2 283 sessions opened with the AsyncAPI Conference website using promoted content. We do not want to close the window, though.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We do not treat Twiter just as a marketing channel. It is our window to the community. We use it to share updates, short information, and engage directly with our community members. We should continue to work on organic growth. It converted only into 2 160 sessions to the AsyncAPI website, which is not much if we compare it with 2 283 sessions opened with the AsyncAPI Conference website using promoted content. We do not want to close the window, though.
```

      322/287<br/>89% closed
    </td>
    <td align="center">
      587/401<br/>68% closed
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>

We're closing fewer issues. This number got worse than last year because we freeze progress on the asyncapi repository, and the last few months did not continue any efforts towards specification 2.1 and 3.0 releases. The reason was pretty simple; we were involved in discussions with many players and planning the next step forward to scale up in 2021. It would not be fair with the AsyncAPI community to work on the next specification versions, with the current government process, knowing we prepare [partnership with Postman](/blog/asyncapi-partners-with-postman).

### What's next with GitHub

We are doing well on GitHub, and so far, I don't see any improvements other than the further automation that we have in plans to handle even more traffic next year.

## npm

The majority of our tools are written in JavaScript/TypeScript, and we host them on Node Package Manager(npm)

### Top packages

Our most important packages are [the Generator](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@asyncapi/generator) and [the Parser](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@asyncapi/parser). 

> <table>

Reviewer: What's this table representing?

  <tr>
    <td align="center">
    </td>
    <td align="center">
      2019
    </td>
    <td align="center">
      2020
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td align="center">
      Generator
    </td>
    <td align="center">
      21 536
    </td>
    <td align="center">
      134 224
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td align="center">
      Parser (published May 2019)
    </td>
    <td align="center">
      18 591
    </td>
    <td align="center">
      173 286
    </td>
  </tr>
</table>

> The change in numbers is so huge that I checked them twice to make sure I'm not wrong.

Reviewer: FYI, a big percentage of these downloads are coming from bots.

Author: how do you know? why they were not that active last year?

Reviewer: I know because every time I was publishing a package (not AsyncAPI related) I was almost instantly having hundreds or thousands of downloads, which is impossible 😄 These numbers are very fuzzy but it's fine, just wanted you to know. As long as you provide both numbers including bots, it's ok.

Author: > As long as you provide both numbers including bots, it's ok.

you mean what both numbers? The thing about bots is very relative when I publish a new package I have even several downloads immediately or after release but it is never constant and it is never thousands. And this theory doesn't explain why numbers were so small in 2019

Author: whatever this bot traffic is, it doesn't see to be bad and fake https://www.reddit.com/r/javascript/comments/7ya9up/why_are_bots_downloading_npm_packages/

Reviewer: Oh no no. I don't mean it explains why numbers were so low in 2019. I mean that a part of it may be bots (crawlers) and that we can't know how much they represent but in my experience, they were the majority (in unknown packages only I was using for myself). What I mean by "both numbers including bots" is that 2019 and 2020 both contain the downloads bots are doing so it's ok. Here's someone asking this same question. It seems to have gotten better over time though: https://www.reddit.com/r/javascript/comments/7ya9up/why_are_bots_downloading_npm_packages/.

Reviewer: In short. Don't change anything. Just wanted you to know that it exists 😄

Author: yes, and first answer makes a lot of sense and is actually good for us `There are networks segregated from the internet that host their own NPM servers. Some of those downloads are definitely for those types of networks.`

this is how corporations work, they install jfrog artifactory, make a copy of npm on their side, do scans, security, and from time to time update cache. So the presence of those actually indicates numbers should be even higher

Author: so we leave it as it is or?

## Ultimate questions - how many people use the spec?

We don't know.

It is the area where we have no specific metrics. We see the growth in tools' adoption, but not everybody uses open source tools. Many companies prefer to develop those in-house.

From observations, we know that number of users that use specification grows:
- More and more companies seek integration with the specification. From unofficial discussions, we know their customers ask them about AsyncAPI support
- The metrics from this blog post clearly show adoption and interest growth

It is a specification we are talking about here. There is no way to measure how many AsyncAPI files were created worldwide. At least there was no way to do it in 2020. We'll try [one idea](https://github.com/asyncapi/asyncapi/issues/377#issuecomment-626755982) of ours in 2021. It looks like in the 2021 summary, we could provide some hard numbers on the subject :crossed_fingers:

## Final words

Thanks for being with us in 2020, and stay with us for 2021 as it will be epic!

> I planned to include in this post also a list of all the AsyncAPI Heroes for 2020, but I was afraid I could miss someone very important and that the list will be very subjective. I hope it is clear, though, that this project is where it is, thanks to many guardian angels out there that help us out.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
I planned to include a list of all the AsyncAPI Heroes for 2020, but I was afraid I could miss someone very important and that the list would be very subjective. I hope it is clear, though, that this project is where it is, thanks to many guardian angels out there that help us out.
```
